$Id: fourfold_dedication,v 1.5 2011/12/10 16:08:13 bkm Exp $

Title page and dedication from A Fovre-fold Meditation

Transcript from EEBO images of a 1606 copy of A Fourfold Meditation. Items in brackets ([]) represent unsure or presumed readings of the text. Line breaks are as found in the text, but no attempt has been made to reproduce the horizontal spacing. -- bkm


A
FOVRE-FOVLD
Meditation,
of the foure last things:
viz.

1.}       {Houre of Death.
2.}       {Day of Iudgement.
   of the
3.}       {Paines of Hell.
4.}       {Ioyes of Heauen.

shewing the estate of the Elect and Reprobata
Composed in a Diuine Poeme
By R. S.
The author of S. Peters complaint.

Imprinted at London by G. Eld: for Francis [Eurten]
1606.

To the Right Worshipfull and
Vertuous Gentleman, Mathew
Saunders, Esquire.
W. H. Wisheth, with long life, a prosperous
achieuement of his good desires.

Sir; as I with great desire apprehended
the least opportunity of manifesting
towards your worthy selfe my sincere
affection, so should I be very sory to pre-
sent any thing vnto you, wherein I
should growe offensiue, or willingly
breed your least molestation: but these meditations, being
Diuine and Religious (& vpon mine owne knowledge, cor-
respondent to your zealous inclination) emboldened me to
recommend them to your view and censure, and therein
to make knowne mine owne entire affection, and seruice-
able loue towards you. Long haue they lien hidden in ob-
scuritie, and happily had neuer seene the light, had not a
meere accident conuayed them to my hands. But, hauing
seriously perused them, loath I was that any who are reli-
giously affected, should be depriued of so great a comfort, as
the due consideration thereof may bring vnto them. As for
my selfe, Sir, the knowledge you haue of me, I hope will ex-
cuse the coldnesse and ster[ilit]ie of my conceipts, who couet
to illustrate my intire affectio[n] vnto your worship, by reall 
and approued actions, referring my selfe wholly in this, &
all other my indeuours, to your fauourable construction,
who shall euer be of power, in the humblest
services to command me.
Your Worships vnfained affectionate,
W.H.


Source:

EEBO record:


Title: A foure-fould meditation, of the foure last things viz. 1. of the houre of death. 2. Day of iudgement. 3. Paines of hell. 4. Ioyes of heauen. Shewing the estate of the elect and reprobate. Composed in a diuine poeme by R:S. the author of S. Peters complaint.   
Author: Arundel, Philip Howard, Earl of, Saint, 1557-1595.   
Other authors: Southwell, Robert, Saint, 1561?-1595,   
Imprint: Imprinted at London : By G. Eld: for Francis Burton, 1606. 
Date: 1606 
Bib name / number: STC (2nd ed.) / 13868.7 
Physical description: [48] p. 
Notes: R.S. = Robert Southwell, but in fact by Philip Howard, Earl of Arundel. 
In verse. 
The numerals "1. 2. 3. 4." and the words "houre .. heauen." are bracketed together in two columns on title page, separated by "of the". 
Signatures: [A]2 B-F4 G2 . 
The last leaf is blank. 
Identified as STC 22949 on UMI microfilm. 
Reproduction of the original in the Henry E. Huntington Library and Art Gallery. 
Copy from: Henry E. Huntington Library and Art Gallery 
UMI Collection / reel number: STC / 1363:16 
Subject: Eschatology -- Poetry -- Early works to 1800. 







Author: Arundel, Philip Howard, Earl of, Saint, 1557-1595.    
Title: A foure-fould meditation, of the foure last things   Date: 1606 Reel position: STC / 1363:16   

